---
layout: "urls"
---
# Grounded Theory...

* Not everyone can be equally skilled at discovering theory, but neither do they need to be a genius to generate useful theory [DISCOVERY, p. viii]

* is a general method of comparative analysis [DISCOVERY, p1].

* is derived from data and then illustrated by characteristic examples of data [DISCOVERY, p5].

* will be more successful than theories logically deduced from a priori assumptions [DISCOVERY, p6].

* can be used as a fuller test of a logico-deductive theory pertaining to the same area by comparison of both theories than an accurate description used to verify a few propositions would provide, discovery gives us a theory that “fits or works” in a substantive or formal area (though further testing, clarification, or reformulation is still necessary), since the theory has been derived from data, not deduced from logical assumptions [DISCOVERY, p29].

* can be presented either as a well codified set of propositions or in a running theoretical discussion, using conceptual categories and their properties [DISCOVERY, p31].

* is an integrated set of conceptual hypotheses [DOING, p. 3].

* is formative, relatively inexpensive, and a source of very rich ideas [DOING, p. 7].

<br>
## References
* [DISCOVERY] Glaser, Barney G., and Strauss, Anselm L. 1967. The Discovery of Grounded Theory: Strategies for Qualitative Research. Aldine, pp. 271.

* [DOING] Glase, Barney G. 1998. Doing Grounded Theory: Issues and Discussions. Sociology Press, pp. 254.

